---
layout: case-study
title:  "Kmart: Reducing complexity, increasing conversion"
excerpt: "Using A/B testing to help make the customers of one of Australia's biggest retailers happier than ever"
hero-header: "Reducing complexity, increasing conversion"
hero-text: "Working with one of Australia’s biggest retailers to make their site more intuitive and useful"
hero-para: "Kmart Australia has over 200 stores across Australia and New Zealand and a growing online business. We’ve been working with their team since 2015 to run a managed service program of conversion rate optimisation and data-driven learning."
date:   2018-10-11 11:01:08 +1100
permalink: /our-work/kmart
big-image:  "../img/kmart-post-it-notes.jpg"
small-image: "../img/kmart-post-it-notes.jpg"
---

Kmart used to spend a lot of time debating what products and categories to feature on their homepage. 

Like umpteen other strategic decisions made in business each day, these choices were based on hunches, best practise and guesswork. But without any real ability to understand if they were having the desired effect. 

Then they started running A/B tests.

{% include image-with-caption.html %}

### Replacing guessing with data

For the last three years, we've worked closely alongside with Kmart's online teams to run managed service A/B testing program designed to replace guessing with data driven learning.

Centered around a monthly prioritisation session with representative stakeholders from across the business, we collate test ideas and hotly debate what tests should go ahead in what order.

{% include blockquote.html %}

### Managed service, independent of IT

While we work closely with Kmart to decide what to test, we of test desigm, development, QA and execution largely independeltly.

Using Optimizely as our A/B testing platform means that we can deploy feature rich changes using client side scripting, completely independent of Kmart's IT team. 

As a result, we can get new tests out the door in hours or days.

{% include image-with-caption.html %}


### Improving conversion and generating ROI

Kmart's testing program is focused on both making the site better and less confusing for customers and also making the website easier and more straightforward to maintain.

In the last few years, we've tested things like:

* How to clearly explain big-and-bulky shipping prices
* Measuring the ROI of video content
* The optimum time to ask customers to join the Kmail marketing program 

### Building a culture of optimisation

Along the way we’ve had big conversion boosting wins, a handful of conversion killing losers (equally important) and a huge raft of learnings about the desires, needs and motivations of Kmart customers.

When creating a testing function within any new business the work is equal parts technical and cultural. 

We're closely partnered with Kmart to help build their data driven learning capabilutty and we're really only just getting started.
